# ChatEngine Security

## Basics

Currently CE leverages two internal PubNub services to handle _granting_ and _revoking_ user access control limits (ACLs) across the various chat channels assigned to CE users.

1. PubNub [Functions](https://www.pubnub.com/tutorials/pubnub-functions/) (i.e. microservice).
2. PubNub Access Monitor (i.e [PAM](https://www.pubnub.com/tutorials/pubnub-access-manager/)).

In short, the communication follows this pattern:

1. CE Client code sends a series of RESTful HTTP calls to a PubNub On Request Function (i.e. a microservice running the CE backend).
2. First, CE tries to connect to default chat channels generated from ```ChatEngine.global```. PubNub CE Function receives a request and makes subsequent ```grant``` calls to PubNub's PAM service (i.e. authorization service). Granting either read and or write access to relevant CE ```ChatEngine.global``` chat channels.
3. Next, CE tries to connect to default chat channels generated from ```ChatEngine.Me```. Similar to step 2, request are routed to the PubNub CE On Request Function, granting read and or write access to the relevent CE ```ChatEngine.Me``` chat channels.
4. After the two connection attempts, if successful, CE emits a ```$.ready``` event signaling CE has successfully initialized and connected to the default ```ChatEngine.global``` and ```ChatEngine.Me``` chat channels.

> A ```secretKey``` is required to grant with PAM. The PubNub CE Function stores an encrypted version of the ```secretKey``` within a secret store (i.e. [PubNub Functions Vault module](https://www.pubnub.com/docs/blocks/vault-module))

## Authorization

Authorization, not to be confused with [authentication](../advancedConcepts/authentication.md), is a default security feature offered by CE. CE relies on PubNub's [PAM](https://www.pubnub.com/tutorials/pubnub-access-manager/) service in order to grant CE users varying levels of access to specific chat channels, otherwise known as access control lists (ACLs).

Though the {@link ChatEngine#connect| ```ChatEngine.connect()``` } method only requires an user's ```UUID``` to authorize, one may additionally provide an ```authKey```. Then a user may be granted access to a specific chat channel against the specific ```authKey```.

PubNub accepts any ```authKey``` that might be generated by external services (oAuth, FB login etc.) or by an external server. It is also recommended to cycle an authKey after few days.

> ```ChatEngine.connect(username, {}, 'yourAuthKey');```

## Editing the Default Security Policy

While the default ChatEngine security policy is sufficient to prevent users from accessing other user’s _private_, _feed_ and _direct_ chats, a user might still be able to connect to ChatEngine with a random ```UUID``` and access all [public chats](connect.md#Connect ChatEngine.Global).

If additional security controls are required, it is possible to edit the default security policy by adding logic to the PubNub CE Function. Since ```authKeys``` are generated by your server, a custom policy can be added in the PubNub CE Function to send XHR requests to the server to validate a user ```UUID``` and ```authKey```. If the ```authKey``` is invalid or expired, the PubNub CE Function can block the ```ChatEngine.connect()``` call.

Effectively this provides CE with authentication logic. To read further on this topic, refer to the following documentation on [adding authentication to CE](../advancedConcepts/authentication.md).

## Transport Security Layer

With TLS and SSL encryption enabled, user data remains encrypted while traveling through the public internet. While only decrypting, processing, and encrypting again when the data travels through PubNub's secure network. The lack of end-to-end encryption is an limitation of TLS/SSL.

To enable TLS/SSL feature within CE, be sure to include the ```ssl: true``` parameter to CE's initialization code.

```js
ChatEngine = new ChatEngineCore.create({
    subscribeKey: "mySubscribeKey",
    publishKey: "myPublishKey",
    ssl: true
});
```

## AES
